Fix some IA issues and add AMM blog (#2477)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: blog/2024/get-ready-for-amm.md

# Get Ready for AMM

The [AMM Amendment](/resources/known-amendments#amm) to the XRP Ledger protocol, which adds Automated Market Maker functionality, is on track to become enabled on Mainnet on 2024-03-22. If it maintains support from a supermajority of validators and becomes enabled as expected, this represents the culmination of a 2-year project to bring AMM to the XRPL, starting from the XLS-30 draft specification proposed by Aanchal Malhotra and David Schwartz of Ripple and incorporating the work and feedback of numerous contributors in the XRPL community during that time.

Any server that is currently working on Mainnet should continue to work after AMM gets enabled, since the Clawback amendment from the same release went live on 2024-02-08. However, it's still a good idea to update to the latest version, [`rippled` 2.1.0](./rippled-2.1.0.md), to take advantage of performance improvements, bug fixes, and to be ready for other amendments that are currently open for voting.

<!-- BREAK -->

## Background

> The XRP Ledger has included a central limit orderbook decentralized exchange (CLOB DEX) since its inception, but other blockchains largely moved in the direction of facilitating currency exchanges through Automated Market Makers (AMMs), often using a "constant product" algorithm. In both systems, users offer some of their assets for exchange on-ledger, and the blockchain matches those with users trying to acquire specific assets; the users providing the assets take on _currency risk_, the possibility that exchange rates will move not in their favor. In the CLOB DEX, users explicitly set the price they're willing to exchange, whereas in an AMM a mathematical formula sets the price based on the supply and demand of currencies involved. In both cases, the market works most efficiently when there is a high volume being supplied and exchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XRP Ledger has included a central limit order book decentralized exchange (CLOB DEX) since its inception, but other blockchains largely moved in the direction of facilitating currency exchanges through Automated Market Makers (AMMs), often using a "constant product" algorithm. In both systems, users offer some of their assets for exchange on-ledger, and the blockchain matches those with users trying to acquire specific assets; the users providing the assets take on _currency risk_, the possibility that exchange rates will move not in their favor. In the CLOB DEX, users explicitly set the price they're willing to exchange, whereas in an AMM, a mathematical formula sets the price based on the supply and demand of currencies involved. In both cases, the market works most efficiently when there is a high volume being supplied and exchanged.
```

> Advantages of a CLOB DEX include fine-grained control over amounts and prices, and the fact that offered funds aren't locked up so they can also be used for other purposes while waiting for a match. (For example, one trader can offer up the same $100 for EUR, CAD, JPY, and so on, giving some or all of it to whoever comes first.) Advantages of an AMM include the simplicity of not needing to manually update exchange rates or add new offers as volume flows back and forth.

Reviewer: It sounds like funds will be locked up in an AMM, is that correct? 
Or is the advantage offered by an AMM (simplicity of not needing to manually update) in addition to the advantages of CLOB DEX?

Author: Yes, these are the advantages over one another. AMM funds are locked up; CLOB DEX traders have to regularly update their offers if they want to refresh the amounts or adjust prices.
